---
layout: post
title: Metis Project 1
---

I joined the [Metis Data Science Bootcamp](http://www.thisismetis.com/data-science) on April 4th. Nearly 2 weeks are done at the time of writing this post, and yet I have already been thrown right into project work.

Our first project was called Project Benson. For the prompt of the project, an organization called WomenTechWomenYes (WTWY) is holding an annual gala at the beginning of the summer. We are being approached to help garner attendance at the gala while also making sure there are people passionate about increasing women participation in technology who would build awareness and reach for the cause. To get this done we must place street teams at the entrances of subway stations in New York City who will collect email addresses of those who show interest who will be sent free tickets to the gala.

In order to tackle this problem we had to identify our objectives and various assumptions. We would like to locte areas with high footfall, which are areas with large numbers of people entering and exited so we have multiple options for people who may be interested. Another focus would be to find areas where people with high income are located because if we were to recruit these people to the cause, each individual may be able to contribute exorbitantly more than just getting multiple low income people who may not provide much contribution. Our last objective was to find tech heavy areas because our focus is women in the tech industry so these areas have a high chance of being in tune with our target audience. We want to locate these areas to decide where to send our representatives while not working them overly hard since it is a tiring and difficult job that can often have heavy turnover. We assume we will have limited resources in terms of representatives to send out, so we want to minimize and narrow our scope as much as possible while getting fulfilling the goal of spreading awareness, filling the gala, and receiving contributions to support the cause.

The main source of data my project group and I used was the MTA turnstile subway data. We looked at the data from the previous month of March for our analysis. There was a lot of useful data relevant to our endgame goal such as entries and exit counts for turnstiles at specific times on specific days at specific stations. We learned that a lot of traffic of entries and exits seemed to occur around stations near 34th St, 42nd St, and 23rd St.

We also made a map with CartoDB using Zipcode data on where the highest income residents are located and where tech startups are growing. What we found is that the areas of high income were heavily around 42nd street, close to the Diamond District, while heavy tech startup growth was near 23rd and 14th Streets.

From these results we narrowed down our scope to looking at stations at 23rd, 14th, and 42nd Street. We used the turnstile data to make line graphs plotting entries and exits at specific times of day for each day of the week for these stations. Weekdays had a significant amount of activity compared to weekends, but there wasnt too much general variation of actvity between weekdays so we were open to picking any weekday. We decided to pick out our final stations.

The high footfall and high income heavy area representative is 42 St Grand Central(5-9pm). The super heavy concentrated area of tech growth around the 5 23 St Stations(10am-4pm) were another focus. Lastly we also planned to place people at  Union Square-14 St(4-8pm) which was also a very tech heavy area. The days of the week to send teams out we decided we would send based on the weather for each day. We didnt access weather data to do this yet but it would be a great idea for the future.